---
layout: post
title: Why Turing?
published: false
---

At the beginning of May, I started a bit of a journey at the Turing School of Software & Design. Before applying, I wrote this little cover letter of sorts for myself while ruminating over that decision.

> I’ve been considering attending Turing for about a year. After researching schools and talking to several Turing grads that worked at my last company, I decided if I were to enroll in a coding program, this would be the one. I especially love the fact that it’s a non-profit dedicated purely to education and job success. In addition, I was impressed by the overwhelmingly glowing reviews from people saying that Turing changed their lives in every possible way, and also the focus on moral responsibility within the industry as part of the curriculum, something that designers also have to consider. However, attending Turing remained a backburner dream, waiting for a hypothetical future moment when I’d be ready to pivot.<br>
<br>Due to pandemic-influenced market changes, I was laid off a little over a week ago from my job as a Product Designer at a startup operating at the intersection of tech and healthcare. I started transitioning to Product within a year of joining the company as a Visual Designer, in search of a more technical or mechanically-inclined way to feed my strengths and interests: use of logic, looking for connections/patterns, enjoyment of puzzles (of the mind and body), psychology, problem solving, and the aspects of design that are more technical (such as typography) and more holistic (such as UX).
<br><br>The next natural step, for me, is a transition to front or back end development. Coding feels like a creative outlet that might be better aligned with my personality and future career goals. It could also provide me with the flexibility and freedom that I’ve come to love from working remotely as a designer, as well as access to a wider and increasingly relevant job market. I’ve dabbled in HTML, CSS, and most recently Python several times in the past. Lack of an immediate application at work or school led to a lack of practice, but I never forgot that particular feeling of mental engagement and satisfaction.
<br><br>I also recently discovered an interest in the world of data science as a portal into industries or research projects that I might otherwise not have access to without formal training. I’ve learned that most data scientists end up as such by responding to the increasing need to handle massive amounts of data to further their research or help inform business decisions. I hope that I’ll be able to come at the problem from the other end. In other words, I aspire to use my future skills as a software engineer to someday work on what I think is one of the most crucial issues of our time: how to reconcile the benefits and dangers of big data as it relates to the future of healthcare, the protection of privacy, and the inherent role of behavioral psychology in all of it.

I ended up choosing the back end program over front end. [Here's why.]()
